okay so like what is it that we maintain
you know sir so nothing something that
we get all the time as well what's your
practical solution I got an easy answer
for you one word veganism that's the
hope that's the only thing you need to
know what we need to do you need to be
if you're an animal person you need to
be vegan once you're vegan then what you
do is go out there and educate anybody
and everybody you can if every one of us
turn one person out to veganism in the
next year we could change the world in a
decade but you know what i do what i
love doing I talk to people all the time
you know when I'm at the grocery store
and people say wow you a lot of
vegetables I said yeah I'm a vegan and
you know I have all sorts of
conversation I've conversations when I'm
getting gasoline at the gas station one
of the more bizarre unannounced contrast
within the philosophy of Gary Francie
ohne is between his seemingly
over-the-top radicalism in constantly
comparing the future prospects for
veganism to the history of the abolition
of slavery and very specifically he uses
a sort of fabled narrative of how
slavery was supposedly abolished in the
southern United States without reference
to the broader story the British Empire
without comparative reference to say
Haiti the French Empire Sri Lanka
Thailand any other country or cultures
experience without slavery was abolished
with a very simplified succinct
narrative that he uses to justify the
rejection of any form of compromise
pragmatic cooperation cetera et cetera
he uses to vilify single issue causes
etcetera but there is a contrast between
that and this somewhat ridiculously
humble practice of his saying well you
took strike up conversations with people
at the gas station strike up
conversations with people at the grocery
store and that's the way he is going to
progress is that the way slavery was
abolished with a bunch of conversations
at the grocery store is it I don't think
so bottom line is if slavery's bad you
don't promote humane slavery you
both the abolition of slavery you know
and I don't think it was people who
refused to own slaves going to the
grocery store and having these polite
conversations that Gary francia nave
reports he has with strangers that
spread the idea of people not only said
I don't think I think that skips over a
few crucial details even within
America's history of slavery was
abolished such as you know a civil war
you might or might not have heard of
with unbelievable body count and a whole
political process even before that civil
war that changed the American you know
political party system etc etc debate
that tore the nation apart but
definitely tore apart the house of
Congress and then as you know resulted
in war and death and dismemberment
beyond imagining um if the abolition of
slavery and specifically the abolition
of slavery in the United States only an
America centric narrative village if
that's your model for social change why
do you abandon it now when you switch to
pragmatic actions vegans are supposed to
take why does it become a bunch of
polite conversations grosser this is
actually a profound absurdity in his
rates it's a profound incoherence but to
switch from this somewhat extreme
example of how slavery was abolished to
an example that I think is much more
useful to compare to the current ongoing
history veganism how will history of gay
rights do you think that's how gay
rights in any successful country not
every country in the world has gay
rights been a success in but easily any
country where the gay rights movement
has been successful was their method
having polite conversations at the
grocery store is that what did it what
was it a bunch of people at the gas
station the grocery store having a play
conversation saying hey you know my
people have been persecuted we've been
literally you know tied to a stick and
burned to death by the Catholic Church
historically this has been treated as a
sin this has been treated as a form of
insanity my people have been put into
gas chambers my people have been
you know strapped down in you know
pseudo medical psychiatric institutions
mental hospitals and electrocuted to try
to turn them from gay to straight we
have this amazing history and now I want
to strike up this little little chit
chat with you at the grocery store and
get you to come over to my side it's
worth phrasing it that way because it's
not even clear in that context at the
grocery store what coming over to my
side would really mean you know what can
straight people do to help gay people in
a country where that struggle still
ongoing where those legal changes
haven't happy and so on no now something
I've pointed out again and again in this
video the original title is on community
and that's the one video where asked my
fans translated into Chinese Japanese
German Danish Italian spin transit in
many languages because for me it is my
positive core message on this channel
for gay rights I think the factor that's
most easily overlooked and its most
crucial and that we as vegans need to
learn from was that they built visible
communities they went from being an
invisible minority to being a highly
visible one and that included just
nightclubs and included restaurants and
included bars but yes it also included
lawyers offices it also included rights
movements explicitly political movements
that articulated position of the gay
community or geek communities plural
very often have a whole bunch of
different organizations some
representing lesbians some more
left-wing some more conservative etc etc
doesn't matter they went from being an
invisible minority to being a visible
minority they went from being a
powerless and voiceless minority to
being a powerful organized minority with
political lobbies yes but also with real
community organizations that's how
people and gay rights change the world
without a civil war that killed millions
and millions of people you promote wool
you promote
leather you promote silk when you when
you condemn fur you promote they took
the eating of meat of a beef of chicken
of fish when you go after foie gras
that's the way it works okay that's the
way that's how these coalition's
function for example race-based slavery
in the United States people came to the
recognition that if humans were chattel
slaves they existed completely outside
the more on legal community slavery was
wrong all humans should be treated as
persons ie all humans whatever their
personal characteristics whatever other
interests of theirs we protected they
should all be regarded as persons I heat
beings whose interests mannered morally
and who had intrinsic or inherit value
and as long as humans were slaves they
could not have intrinsic or inherent
value they only had external or
extrinsic value okay and so we abolished
slavery principle one abolitionist
maintained in all sentient beings human
or non-human have one right basic right
not to be treated as the property of
others now I'm tempted to leave this
video there to keep it short and sweet
and succinct it to the point but I think
one of the other fundamental
misconceptions that Gary Franchione has
popularized is that property itself as a
legal concept is the problem because
property is what the human eyes is a
slave and again in this simplified
history of just southern United States
no interest in slavery in any other
culture in the world in either part of
the world's history it's problematic
property itself becomes demonized and
the abolition of this legal concept of
property is presented as this overly
simplistic solution well I don't know
Gary Francie own is supposedly a lawyer
but he may be a lawyer with a very
narrow interest or you may be
intentionally misrepresented things to
make its case down stronger that's not
the way property works at all if you own
an historical building a building of
some artistic significance some
historical significance you can't do
anything without getting the
government's permission you can't
renovate you can't take down a wall
all you can't put in a new window you
can't adjust the level of the windowsill
you'd be amazed I mean it depends on
where you live if you're living in
Europe almost anywhere in Europe you'll
know what I'm talking about owning
property does not mean that you have the
right to take that property and throw it
in the garbage in fact there are many
many categories of property including
land itself where the legal restrictions
and guidance provided the people the
government is extensive if you buy a
statue that is of some historical value
and then you destroy the statue you may
indeed be committing a crime that we had
a proposal put to our Senate in Canada
it's the Canadian Senate Canadian
parliamentary system and ever the recall
it was presented as Senate three times
and rejected three times to create a
special act a special law that redefined
animals as living property that a
special class of property it is a
bizarre fact that in most countries
around the world a statue of a cow has
more rights than an actual cow but they
are both property you can have laws that
protect protect cultural heritage
cultural heritage remains property I
mean again almost every country there
will every wealthy country except for
extremely poor countries in the world
they have some laws that protect
architecture as cultural heritage the
physical structure of the building
decorative elements can be a painting on
the wall can be a fresco the fact that
you own that with you on the whole
building or or or one object like this
does not actually give you any of the
rights he's talking about here and the
reality is that the status of animals is
in some ways much more of a problem like
cultural heritage in this sense because
animals do not have their own voice they
cannot go to court and represent their
own opinions and interest the way slaves
can especially if you liberate slaves
and educate slaves slaves can go to
court and speak of themselves in fact in
the present and the future what we
really need especially which over the
next ten years next 30 years talk about
my lifetime I don't really want utopian
solutions that are for 500 ears the
future I won't talk about nail once I go
with me before I'm in the grave yes we
can have pragmatic down-to-earth laws
under which animals are still property
but we're like cultural heritage there
are special legal guidelines
our special considerations that make
them fundamentally different from a
block of wood say already true of many
many classes of property and of course
in some ways also all of these questions
linked to wildlife management habitat
conservation and the preservation of a
forest whether it's public property or
private property we're still talking
about property land trees would birds in
the forest i I'm sorry I know there's
this yearning sort of immature reaction
so well the problem is that we use the
word property to describe these things
and if only we can abolish the concept
of property then all of these problems
will disappear but it's just not true in
reality we're looking at a long slow
series of halfway steps and you know
laws that adjust and refine the
definition of property so that yes you
know there's some protection for an ape
that has been taken out of the jungle
put into a laboratory and tortured for
years who is going to speak for that ape
the ape can't speak for himself or
herself it may seem to you and inherent
crime to label this eight property but
I've got to tell you my concern is with
the pragmatic steps for how that ape
actually has rights that can be
exercised that ultimately those rights
have to be exercised by human beings on
that Apes behalf ultimately human beings
have to enforce the regulations for a
forest somebody has to patrol the forest
somebody has to notice the trees are cut
down somebody has to take scientific
measurements of the water in the river
and go to a court and prove that
somebody else is polluting it etc etc
there is just no sense in which you can
remove the stain of this word property
and then expect the liberated slaves to
speak to themselves it is a false
analogy at best it's misleading in the
extreme and it also proceeds from a
eurocentric and basically America
centric notion of slightly history of
slavery and one that massively
oversimplifies the reality of what
property is in our society today I banos
yen